In order to maintain the effectiveness of the model, we would need to continue to test it on new data. Since the Titanic was a rare event, we do not have a lot of new data to test on the model, but we can still be prepared in case new data were to become available. The first step in monitoring the model is to determine specific thresholds that we expect the model to stay above. We would want the model to maintain certain Accuracy and F1 values in order to determine that the model is working correctly. The first level we are monitoring is Accuracy or F1 values falling below 70%. Once one of those values falls below 70% we would examine the test data to make sure the data is valid. Assuming the data is valid, we will keep a closer eye on the model performance moving forward. Once both Accuracy and F1 values fall below 70%, or one of the values falls below 60%, we will retrain the model on more recent data. 

One of the biggest concerns with our model is data drift. Since the Titanic sank over 100 years ago, the data that we are using from the model may not align with data relevant to ship travel today. Our expectation is that age is one data point that will look drastically different for ship travel today than it did for the Titanic simply due to the massive increase in life expectancy. Due to this change, we will make sure to closely monitor age in new data and will adjust the model if we see the median age change by 20%. 

Another concern of ours is that there will be concept drift. It is possible that over time, the relationships between variables in the model will change, resulting in the model losing effectiveness. In order to account for this, we will continue to monitor correlations between the model variables and will adjust the model if we notice any large (greater than 20%) changes in the correlations.

Overall, we will monitor our model to make sure it remains robust. Our assumptions are that a robust model will maintain both Accuracy and F1 values of over 70%, while the correlations in the model remain fairly constant and new data doesn't appear to vary drastically from our training data. We will look for the model to keep Accuracy and F1 values above 70%, while also making sure that median age of new data doesn't change by more than 20% and that correlations between variables in the model don't change by more than 20%. If any of these events were to happen, we would look to retrain our model on more recent data in order to maintain model robustness.

Bibliography Reference:
How Has Average Life Expectancy Changed From the 1800s to Today? (2024). Available at: https://www.verywellhealth.com/longevity-throughout-history-2224054 (Accessed: 8 May 2025)
